we made a video together both of us
sitting side by side many months ago
discussing what it was like for me to
grow up communist that my parents really
consciously and intentionally raised me
to be a communist and I am today an
anti-communist I'm not merely not
contest from someone who's a pretty
vocal critic of the history and current
day political reality of communism that
video which is quite enjoyable in its
way is largely but who my parents were
and their motivations and a warrant in
this video to have a bit more of a
focused analytical approach to I think
something we all experienced in
childhood were presented with a lot of
information that doesn't make sense
whether you grow up Christian atheist
Jewish communist Republican and I think
we tend to select and hold on to the
little pieces that make sense to us we
create a rational world for ourselves
out of the irrationality of what adults
are burdening us with and of course it
may not be that the adults are trying to
baffle you but obviously as a child the
barrage of disorganized information you
get watching say television news
watching NBC News or CBC News or any
other mainstream news source that's
something you have to kind of make sense
of you pick up little bits and pieces
out that you carry with you and most
likely your parents ideology or maybe
even the ideologies you were presented
with in school something in this way you
pick and choose and I think what you
hold on to and what lasts are the parts
that make sense to you from the
perspective as a child so and I'm
interested here also in just saying a
little bit about how this shaped my
adult engagement with politics most
obviously for my current audience vegan
politics this doesn't really have
anything to do with First Nations
politics or Canadian politics or
Southeast Asian politics you know
honestly so you know one of the biggest
overall impacts on me that my parents
communist ideologies had
was the assumption that the job of the
government was to take care of the poor
and when the government did this poorly
with if the government failed in taking
care of the poor the poor would rise up
and tear down the government and this
was the major pattern or rhythm or
heartbeat in history that governments
would work well for a while whether
you're talking about medieval kingdoms
or Renaissance or modern but then after
some time the government will come
irresponsible arrogant or corrupt or
something and then you know that the
poor would rise up and tear down the
government and this is based above all
else on a very slanted selective reading
of the history of the French Revolution
I think people today left-wing
right-wing and Center I think people
today really underestimate the unique
importance of the French Revolution and
of what Karl Marx has to say about the
French Revolution to communists
socialists and the whole left end of the
spectrum so I've mentioned this and
partly just talk about my childhood but
right now I've started on a project of
trying to read history textbooks current
present-day history textbooks in
communist China and very interested in
how they now present the history of the
French Revolution to students the tribe
because I know they're not done they're
not presenting the kind of Marxist
analysis of the French Revolution nor
the American Revolution for that matter
it's an interesting question and it's
true I mean this this is the funny thing
so what you hold on to what lasts the
things that seem to make sense to you
and that is something a child can
understand I saw a comment here on
YouTube the other day from a black
stand-up comedian african-american
student comedian DL Hughley and this is
because I just saw yesterday is almost a
direct quotation he said that he thought
it was immoral and unjust that American
politics should be ruled and controlled
by the losers in the economic and
system the people who had the least
money and people who had failed failed
to see who had not succeeded in their
education career should have decisive
singer he went on to directly insult and
ridicule people in Rust Belt cities like
Detroit that these were the people who
had elected Donald Trump and that this
was these are the people Tom Ferris is
pointing to and from his perspective he
said again this is almost a perfect
quotation he said you know if you've
been a failure economically you should
have less to say in politics not more so
this guy's an African American stand-up
comedian he doesn't think of himself as
Italy just you know he doesn't think of
himself as having aristocratic attitudes
or plutocratic attitudes but to me that
is still a shockingly it's a shockingly
authoritarian elitist top-down attitude
that simian is so reminded me of my kind
of child
the ideology I was molded into in
childhood and that today whether I'm
reading Aristotle or Thucydides you know
ancient Greek political philosophy or
I'm looking at American political
philosophy it's very funny but like look
Starbucks caters to the rich you know
fancy shoe corporations cater to the
ranch there are so many services
provided obviously a for-profit basis
rich government is precisely supposed to
be the one part of our society that is
not buy it for the rich and it's
mind-blowing to me that people don't get
that that know the oneness sector of a
society that's supposed to really be
concerned about working by and for the
poor is is government so that struck me
the other day that that in some ways is
a very very broad assumption had had
stayed with me you know the deep
assumption that at all times the poor
were on the side of peace and that the
rich were the ones somehow conniving and
conspiring to drag them into war that
the poor represented all the virtues of
the world and the represent illegal and
that there's this conflict you know
this is part of quote-unquote
internationalism in communism Connor's
international of course you know even as
a child I started to figure out that was
untrue I can remember asking my father
directly I'd be hard for you to figure
out was that 8 years old or 11 years old
or what but I remember asked him I said
you know but what you're saying how can
this be true I'd seen in the newspapers
dissent the vast majority of the working
class like people jobs as factory
workers the vast majority of the poor in
Canada at that time voted for the
Conservative Party the vast majority of
the hard pro-american and pro war you
know just in the newspaper the news you
saw this our working-class just now has
mentioned the working-class just voted
for Donald Trump for have you it's just
not true that the working class or the
poor are this repository of left-wing uh
virtues and that's what's the small
elite and the other hand of course I was
presented with all these examples of
wealthy and sometimes literally
aristocratic people who had become
left-wing icons but you know even people
who represented to you somebody like
George Bernard Shaw sort of champagne
socialists and this kind of thing that
you know wealth didn't wasn't linked to
being the sort of right-wing war monger
and poverty was not linked to being a
left-wing you know peacenik so that was
one of the things that started to
unravel so just saying contrasting just
these two points one the idea that the
government's you know most fundamental
responsibility is to help people who
cannot help themselves you know that
stay with me but then to this is like
the antithesis of my parents philosophy
and part it's the government's
responsibility to help those people just
because they need help period not
because they're good not because they're
morally secure it's the Richard
something and not because they have the
power to tear down the government they
don't and one of the things that was to
shock me when I move past the propaganda
version of history to real political
history was that most of those
revolutions in France what was being
left out of the store
was the military that in reality these
were military coup d'etat I mean this
obviously shows even in the the first
that was Napoleon rise in the power and
so on that no this wasn't really
peasants with pitchforks that decided
the course of history that was a
communist version that omitted all the
people who had cannons it was camping
stuff pitchforks that really matter what
what really happened in the the rise and
fall this way anyway you know I'm
conscious of this because I think a lot
of us imagine were raising our children
without any political ideology and it
was shocking to me when I talked to my
father for the first time after ten
years of silence between us and quite
hostile invidious that once he knew I
mean he knew I disapproved of him and of
course he disapproved a lot of things I
don't know much some of them he admired
and respected to whatever you know
instead going to Cambodia and doing
humanitarian work or this kind of thing
you know but obviously he had spent his
life justifying the massacre of
Buddhists by communist regimes you know
including China and I converted two
terabyte of Buddhism there were a lot of
really obvious gaps he was a hardcore
communist and I was I was an economist
but when I talked to him for the first
time after 10 years of invidious silence
he insisted to me that he hadn't raised
me communists at all and this was quite
a long fierce debate where I was really
trying to explain to me like no this is
untrue you know everything from the the
books I read as a child the books that
were literally on my bookshelf the books
that were given to me in the same way
that a Christian family gives their kid
Bible stories you know like they don't
you know I mean there are four children
versions of communist program I've met a
boardgame
I remember seeing an article but as I
recall the board game was called class
struggle it's like monopoly you know the
board game and out there we move around
the outside but the point isn't to get
rich the point is to lead the revolution
and destroy justice but even that board
game at the beginning you were supposed
to roll roll the dice to decide which
social class you were whether you were
like a factory worker or a miner but the
game
was easier you were in a more powerful
position if you start in as a medical
doctor or another like bourgeois like
milk slowly price that you were at a
better position you have advantages by
not team working class I remember my
mother was once in the room when I
started a game with a friend and I said
no no I don't wanna go that I want to
play as the medical doctor I want to
play as the medical doctor or architect
there was some of their wealthy there
and my mom laughed and she said no you
can't choose the point of the game is
you have to roll the dice then Plainsman
I was like no but it's easier to win if
you start as a back there was garbage as
propaganda in the home in this way you
know adapted the kids but you know it
was kind of chilling it's kind of a
warning to all of us that my father who
you know sat and talked to me about call
Marx and Lenin and Stalin and Mao Zedong
for hours during my childhood as I've
said much more even if your father was a
rabbi or something he might not have
cared that much about Judaism protrude
philosophy might have had that much to
say but I've known a lot of very secular
even atheist rabbis you know but you
know the hours and hours put into it he
perceived himself as not having raised
us as communists you know at all and
that I mean in as much as he was capable
of being sincere about about anything
that was a sincere perception so no more
one more thing here you know I had many
many brothers brothers and sisters I was
the ninth child my father had and it's
interesting I have a I have an example
of how his own faith crumbled in at
least some some ways in contrasting how
I grew up to have my older brothers and
sisters grew up but you know the late
motif of say my older brother of Adams
life just to pick one of them so Adam is
15 years older than me some of that very
very roughly so they're all old men
helpful skies and my oldest brother's I
think are about 20 years younger than me
something that they're round numbers
here but you know Adam
what he was always taught by my father
was the morally uplifting quality of
work that working in a factory like
elevated you Willie spiritually I think
that's a good way to put it in communism
that repetitive mindless labor doesn't
matter can be in a sock Factory and a
woman that same brother he did actually
work in a an anorak factory with a
winter coat factory he had some factory
jobs in his day
you know kind of the lowest and humblest
job as a janitor or a factory worker
that this was somehow morally and
spiritually uplifting so you know the
belief in the future revolution and
communism and someone is old is all
linked into this and I got to see that
by the time I was growing up my father
had lost that faith and actually I think
one of the things that shook it I was
reminded as never mentioning rabbis one
of my uncle's was a rabbi there's
actually my great uncle and I remember
he had this theory of human
psychological development that was all
about leisure and play so there are
different philosophers who talked about
that including Aristotle but I think
some of the big psychiatrist like Jung
and so on the idea of just having time
sitting and playing having disorganized
education but disorganized time at
leisure and and play this was important
for both adult and child psychological
development and I remember my father
must've just hit some breaking point
where you know he recognized no drudgery
is drudgery like you don't learn
anything from having a meaningless you
know blue-collar job that standing in a
factory or working in construction and
this kind of thing and the this so I
mean he never explicitly discussed that
with me but I saw a lot of indirect
discussions where I could see he had
lost his faith he lost his faith in work
you know and when I finished college I
actually applied for and was offered I
got a job on a demolition crew so that's
part of the construction history that's
literally taking a sledgehammer and
breaking up cinder blocks which yes and
my girlfriend is smiley she doesn't
begin to that just the sheer brute
physicality of that of showing up and
you know demolishing and hauling off
pieces of scrap metal and that's though
you know just didn't that every day and
my father was so shocked and so
horrified and he refused to let me do
the job and it totally incoherent wire
yeah for him at least that that fell
apart so anyway look I think I was the
most cerebral and self-aware of all my
brothers and sisters about this stuff
that I really thought about the doctrine
of communism in my early childhood when
I accepted it and I really thought about
it and consciously made a shift a
transformation when I rejected it and
thinking about what I was rejecting and
even in school textbooks about history
that I was finding the raw material that
both supported and challenged the
narrative about the history of the world
that I was raised you know to believe
but you know I mean I guess just one
other thing to say finally I guess one
positive thing about parents raising
their kids communists is that it doesn't
teach them that they're special it
doesn't teach them that they're a gift
to the world they're doing is impossible
it teaches you if you want to do
something positive for Humanity you've
actually got to get out there and make
it happen
right sorry that was the other thing I
want to say here so you've got to get
there and make it happen and yes I had
examples like the revolutionaries in
Vietnam
who went out and lived in a cave with a
machine gun in that kind of really
extreme military uprising form of
communism and even Cuba and stuff they
tell lies in their version of Cuban the
Cuban Revolution is really different
from reality but anyway Vietnam is a
good enough example and you know at that
time also there were kind of that there
was the communist version of the history
of South Africa of how the Communist
Party challenged apartheid and fought
for the upliftment of black people in
South Africa again communist version of
history but you know obviously there's
some truth to it terms of what the
Communist Party was doing so that every
but you know the other big thing that
came out of it I was thinking of this
yesterday is we're walking in in the
streets of Dijon France the idea of
meant to be an intellectual and to form
a salon you know of the history of the
Enlightenment in Europe because again if
you're anti imperialist what made
European civilization special not
imperialism not the Empire not England
and France conquering the Caribbean and
enslaving native people what made your
special or exceptional well the answer
is the Enlightenment in this the
Enlightenment is an historical period
and then the emergence of science and
new philosophies from the Enlightenment
what meet the Enlightenment happen well
you know this reaction against the
oppressive church but these small groups
of men ultimately gathering in coffee
shops but it could be 15 guys or
something and yes some of the more
aristocrats and some of the more
bourgeois businessmen and a few were
honest working poor men who were somehow
brilliant or inventive but you know like
a whole box and helvetius the bar wound
the whole box if you guys want an
example who was one of the first to
really publish without atheism in an
explicit way because course was censored
for that and forming small groups of
intellectuals who wrote about literature
and history and politics and science and
it created new encyclopedias that also
definitely had a formative influence on
me where I could see things like okay
science fiction which is very appealing
the most children but maybe especially
male children okay I saw what it meant
to be an author of science fiction
someone like Robert a Heinlein who I've
read as a child then it would see
someone who just writes books or makes
them movies and stories and then I could
see over here then there are these
creative writers who are trying to
change the world and the difference is
precisely politically organizing that
some all that group that social circle
whether it's in the sciences or
literature or philosophy or directly
politics or what-have-you and I guess
it's definitely true from the first
moment I came here on YouTube
still that ideas I said so many times
look you need five people 15 people you
need people who come together and pour
pool their efforts and resources in time
and criticize each other's work engage
in productive
of each other's writing you know this is
not a game one man can play alone that
you need that Simone you know you need
that again in the in the kind of 18th
century sense an academy of people not
meaning an actual university or
institution but an academy that could be
20 guys who meet at a coffee shop once
every two weeks you know before the
internet that was really the engine of
social change that made that made the
Enlightenment happen and it is it is
ultimately as the harbingers of
enlightenment European thought to the
world that communism took on its sense
of moral purpose that for China for
Vietnam and even for most of Russia that
it was them catching up with something
really special that happened in Western
Europe when people threw off the chains
of medieval Catholicism you know at the
end of the at the end of the Renaissance